Job interviews can feel stressful, especially in English. Today, you'll master essential phrases that will help you introduce yourself professionally, describe your experience, and answer common interview questions with confidence.
In this lesson, we'll cover four essential interview skills:
First, introducing yourself professionally.
Second, describing your experience and achievements.
Third, answering common interview questions effectively.
And fourth, asking intelligent questions that impress interviewers.
These skills will help you succeed in any job interview and make a strong professional impression.
Let's start with introducing yourself professionally. The interviewer might ask: 'Tell me about yourself' or 'Can you introduce yourself?'
This is your first impression. Make it count.
Here's a professional introduction structure:
**Start with your current role or education**:
'I'm currently working as [position] at [company].'
'I'm a [position] with [X] years of experience.'
**Highlight your key strengths**:
'I specialize in [area of expertise].'
'My strengths include [skill 1], [skill 2], and [skill 3].'
**Express interest in the position**:
'I'm very interested in this position because [reason].'
Let me show you a complete professional introduction:
'Hi, I'm [Your Name]. I'm currently working as a [position] at [company], where I've been for [X] years. I specialize in [area], and my strengths include [skill 1] and [skill 2].'
'I'm very interested in this position because [reason]. I'm excited about the opportunity to [contribution].'
Practice this structure until it feels natural.
[PAUSE FOR SPEAKING EXERCISE]
Now let's learn to describe your experience using the STAR method: Situation, Task, Action, Result.
**Situation**: Set the context
**Task**: Explain what needed to be done
**Action**: Describe what you did
**Result**: Share the outcome
Here's an example using STAR:
'In my previous role, we had a project deadline that seemed impossible to meet.' [Situation]
'My task was to coordinate the team and ensure we delivered on time.' [Task]
'I organized daily stand-up meetings, identified bottlenecks early, and reallocated resources where needed.' [Action]
'As a result, we completed the project two days ahead of schedule and received positive feedback from the client.' [Result]
Notice how this method gives a clear, structured answer. Practice organizing your experiences this way.
[PAUSE FOR SHADOW SPEAKING]
Now let's practice answering common interview questions.
**Question 1: Why do you want this job?**
Good answer structure:
'I'm interested in this position because [reason related to company/role].'
'I'm particularly drawn to [specific aspect]. My experience in [area] aligns well with this role, and I'm excited about the opportunity to [contribution].'
**Question 2: Why should we hire you?**
Good answer structure:
'I believe I'm a strong fit because [reason 1]. Additionally, my experience in [area] and [achievement] demonstrate my ability to [contribution].'
**Question 3: What are your strengths?**
Good answer structure:
'My strengths include [strength 1], [strength 2], and [strength 3]. For example, [specific example of strength].'
[PAUSE FOR SPEAKING EXERCISE]
**Question 4: What are your weaknesses?**
This is tricky! Here's a professional approach:
'I used to struggle with [weakness], but I've worked on it by [action]. For example, [specific example].'
Or: 'I tend to be a perfectionist, which means I sometimes spend too much time on details. However, I've learned to balance quality with efficiency by [strategy].'
Always show growth and self-awareness.
[PAUSE FOR SHADOW SPEAKING]
**Question 5: Where do you see yourself in five years?**
Good answer structure:
'In five years, I see myself [professional goal related to role/company]. I'm particularly interested in [growth area], and I believe this position is a great step toward that goal.'
**Question 6: Tell me about a challenge you faced.**
Use the STAR method:
'One challenge I faced was [situation]. The task was to [task]. I [action], and as a result, [result].'
[PAUSE FOR DIALOGUE PRACTICE]
At the end of interviews, you'll often be asked: 'Do you have any questions for us?'
**Excellent questions to ask**:
'What does a typical day look like in this role?'
'What are the biggest challenges facing this team?'
'How do you measure success in this position?'
'What opportunities are there for professional development?'
'What do you enjoy most about working here?'
These questions show you're engaged and serious about the role.
[PAUSE FOR SPEAKING EXERCISE]
Let's see a complete interview scenario:
**Interviewer**: 'Good morning! Thank you for coming in today. Can you tell me about yourself?'
**Candidate**: 'Good morning! Thank you for having me. I'm [Name], and I'm currently working as a [position] at [company].'
'I have [X] years of experience in [field], and I specialize in [area]. My strengths include [skill 1] and [skill 2]. I'm very interested in this position because [reason].'
**Interviewer**: 'That's great. Can you tell me about a time you overcame a challenge?'
**Candidate**: 'Certainly. In my previous role, we faced [situation]. My task was to [task]. I [action], and as a result, [result].'
**Interviewer**: 'Excellent. Do you have any questions for us?'
**Candidate**: 'Yes, I do. What does a typical day look like in this role, and what are the biggest challenges facing this team?'
Notice how the candidate answers clearly, uses the STAR method, and asks thoughtful questions.
[PAUSE FOR DIALOGUE PRACTICE - FULL INTERVIEW]
Here are key tips for interview success:
1. **Prepare in Advance**: Research the company and role
2. **Practice Your Answers**: Rehearse common questions
3. **Use the STAR Method**: Structure your experience stories
4. **Ask Questions**: Show genuine interest
5. **Be Confident**: Speak clearly and maintain eye contact
Let's recap what we learned today:
**Key Takeaways**:
1. Introduce yourself professionally with structure
2. Describe experience using the STAR method
3. Answer common questions clearly and confidently
4. Ask intelligent questions that demonstrate interest
5. Show growth when discussing weaknesses
6. Connect your experience to the role
You now have essential interview skills that will help you succeed!
[PAUSE FOR QUIZ]
Excellent work! You've mastered essential job interview phrases.
**Your Next Steps**:
1. Prepare your own introduction using the structure
2. Identify 3-5 experiences you can describe using STAR
3. Practice answering common interview questions
4. Move on to Lesson 4: Business Phone Calls
Remember, confidence in interviews comes from preparation and practice. Keep practicing, and you'll ace your next interview!
See you in the next lesson!